.Dd June 20, 2024
.Dt RVN-TRIGGERS 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm "rvn triggers"
.Nd trigger file format
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
are executed at the end of installation, removal, and upgrade operations.
The associated script is only executed once even if the trigger was hit multiple
times, although the arguments to the script might increase with multiple hits.
.Pp
The scripts are triggered when files and directories matching the pattern
definitions are installed or upgraded.
The trigger scripts are exclusively written in Lua.
.Pp
The format is the following:
.Bl -tag -width file_regexp
.It Cm dir_path
An array of strings exactly matching the full path of a directory.
Each time a package creates a directory in this array, or installs a file
within that directory's tree, the script is triggered.
If glob or regular expression matching of directories is desired, use the
.Cm file_glob
or
.Cm file_regexp
definitions to accomplish that.
.It Cm file_path
An array of strings exactly matching the full path of a file.
Each time a package installs or upgrades a file in this array, the script is
triggered.
.It Cm file_glob
An array of glob patterns matching the full path of a file.
Each time a package installs or upgrades a file matching a pattern in this
array, the script is triggered.
.It Cm file_regexp
An array of regular expressions matching the full path of a file.
Each time a package installs or upgrades a file matching a pattern in this
array, the script is triggered.
.It Cm cleanup
This is a string which contains an entire Lua script which is run when the
package that created the trigger is removed.
.It Cm trigger
This is a string that contains the entire Lua script that is run at the end
of the install or upgrade operation.
Every directory or file that triggered the script is passed as an argument to
the script.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rvn-keywords 5 ,
.Xr rvn-lua-scripts 5 ,
.Xr rvn-repository 5 ,
.Xr rvn-scripts 5 ,
.Xr rvn.conf 5 ,
.Xr rvn 8 ,
.Xr rvn-alias 8 ,
.Xr rvn-annotate 8 ,
.Xr rvn-audit 8 ,
.Xr rvn-autoremove 8 ,
.Xr rvn-catalog 8 ,
.Xr rvn-check 8 ,
.Xr rvn-clean 8 ,
.Xr rvn-config 8 ,
.Xr rvn-create 8 ,
.Xr rvn-fetch 8 ,
.Xr rvn-genrepo 8 ,
.Xr rvn-info 8 ,
.Xr rvn-install 8 ,
.Xr rvn-query 8 ,
.Xr rvn-remove 8 ,
.Xr rvn-rquery 8 ,
.Xr rvn-search 8 ,
.Xr rvn-shell 8 ,
.Xr rvn-shlib 8 ,
.Xr rvn-stats 8 ,
.Xr rvn-upgrade 8 ,
.Xr rvn-version 8 ,
.Xr rvn-which 8
