.Dd December 6, 2023
.Dt RVN-LUA-SCRIPT 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm "lua scripts"
.Nd lua scripts that are run by
.Xr rvn 8
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Xr rvn 8
runs scripts at distinct phases of package maintenance:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Cm pre-install :
run before installing files on the system.
.It Cm post-install :
run after installing files on the system.
.It Cm pre-deinstall :
run before removing files on the system.
.It Cm post-deinstall :
run after removing files on the system.
.El
.Pp
A package may contain multiple scripts per phase and each will be run
sequentally inside its own Lua VM.
.Pp
In the case of a package upgrade, the scripts are run in this order:
.Bl -enum -compact
.It
new pre-install
.It
old pre-deinstall
.It
replace binaries
.It
new post-install
.El
.Pp
Lua scripts are always run after Bourne shell scripts of the same phase.
.Sh API
The complete Lua API is available with the exception of the following changes:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fn io.open
has been modified to limit opening files inside the rootdir
specified by the
.Ar -r
argument passed to
.Xr rvn 8 .
.It Fn os.remove
has been modified to limit deleting files inside the rootdir
specified by the
.Ar -r
argument passed to
.Xr rvn 8 .
.It Fn os.rename
has been modified to limit renaming files inside the rootdir
specified by the
.Ar -r
argument passed to
.Xr rvn 8 .
.It Fn os.execute
has been disabled.
.It Fn os.exit
has been disabled.
.El
.Pp
The following variables are predefined for the scripts:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Va pkg_namebase
namebase of the package.
.It Va pkg_subpackage
subpackage of the package.
.It Va pkg_variant
variant of the package.
.It Va pkg_prefix
.Va PREFIX
defined within the package at build time.
.It Va pkg_rootdir
represents the root directory where the package will be installed as specified
by the
.Fl r
arguments passed to
.Xr rvn 8 .
.It Va pkg_upgrade
Boolean to inform the script that it is running in the context of an upgrade
.El
.Pp
The following functions have been added:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ft out Fn pkg.prefixed_path "in"
prepend
.Va pkg_prefix
to
.Ar in
if needed and returns it as
.Ft out .
.It Fn pkg.print_msg "msg"
send messages to the user that will be shown at the end of the
.Xr rvn 8
process.
.It Fn pkg.filecmp "file1" "file2"
Compare 2 files, return
.Va 0
if the files are identical,
.Va 1
if the files are different and
.Va 2
if at least of the files does not exist.
.It Fn pkg.copy "source" "destination"
Copy a regular file or a hard link preserving its attributes. return
.Va 0
upon success,
.Va 1
if an error occurred during copy,
.Va 2
if the source file does not exist,
.Va 3
if the source file is not an accepted type and
.Va 4
if the parent directory of the destination file does not exist.
.It Ft st Fn pkg.stat "file"
return an object table
.Ft st
with the following fields:
.Va type ,
.Va size ,
.Va uid ,
.Va gid
.It Fn pkg.symlink "source" "destination"
Create a symbolic link
.Va destination
pointing at
.Va source
.It Fn pkg.exec arguments
Will execute the command
.Ar arguments
expected in the following form:
.So
.Bro command, arg1, arg2, arg3, ...
.Brc
.Sc
.It Ft res Fn pkg.readdir path
Will return an
.Va ipair
with the list of elements contained in the directory
with the special directories
.Va .
and
.Va ..
filtered out.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rvn-keywords 5 ,
.Xr rvn-scripts 5 ,
.Xr rvn 8 ,
.Xr rvn-alias 8 ,
.Xr rvn-config 8 ,
.Xr rvn-create 8 ,
.Xr rvn-info 8 ,
.Xr rvn-install 8 ,
.Xr rvn-shell 8 ,
.Xr rvn-shlib 8 ,
.Xr rvn-which 8
