.Dd June 11, 2024
.Dt RVN-UPGRADE 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm "rvn upgrade"
.Nd Upgrades installed packages
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl fInFqUy
.Op Fl r Ar reponame
.Op Fl CE
.Ar pkg-name ...
.Pp
.Nm
.Op Cm --{force,no-scripts,dry-run,fetch-only}
.Op Cm --{quiet,no-repo-update,yes}
.Op Cm --repository Ar reponame
.Op Cm --{case-sensitive,exact-match}
.Ar pkg-name ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is used for upgrading packaged software distributions.
.Pp
.Nm
compares the versions of specified packages installed on the system
to what is available in the configured package repository.
If no packages are specified, all installed packages will be checked.
The identified obsolete packages are added to a work list for processing.
.Nm
will not install new packages unless they required by the newer versions
of the upgraded packages.
.Pp
The assembled work list is then examined.
Any package that is already installed and current is dropped unless the
.Fl f
(force) option is supplied, in which case that package will be reinstalled.
.Pp
The dependencies of packages in the list are recursively determined.
Any dependencies that aren't already installed are added to the queue.
These implicitly added packages are designated as candidates for
autoremoval (automatic flag is set).
See
.Xr rvn-autoremove 8
for details.
.Pp
Autoremoval flags are sticky, and they will persist over reinstallations
and upgrades even when explicitly specified on the command line.
See
.Xr rvn-query 8
for finding the autoremoval status of a package.
.Pp
When a package on the work list supplies a shared library, and that
library has been updated, all packages requiring that shared library
will also be added to the work list as reinstallation jobs.
The queue is arranged by dependency order and
.Nm
will present it to the user for approval before proceeding unless
overridden by the
.Fl y
option or if
.Cm ASSUME_ALWAYS_YES
is set to
.Dq true
in
.Pa rvn.conf .
.Pp
Packages are fetched from the configured repository and stored into the
local package cache if they are not already present, or if the digest of the
cached package file differs from the version in the remote repository.
Packages will be downloaded from the highest priority mirror configured in
.Pa /usr/local/etc/rvn/repo .
See
.Xr rvn-repository 5
and
.Xr rvn.conf 5
for details.
.Pp
Finally, the work list is executed in previously presented order.
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are supported by
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width automatic
.It Fl F , Cm --fetch-only
With this option, the installation stops after the package files are
retrieved from the remote repository.
.It Fl f , Cm --force
Force the reinstallation of selected packages that are already installed
rather than dropping them from the queue.
.It Fl I , Cm --no-scripts
This option prevents the execution of installation scripts (pre-install or
post-install, Lua or shell) if they are provided with the package being
installed.
.It Fl n , Cm --dry-run
Dry-run mode.
The list of changes to packages is always printed, but no changes are
actually made.
Package fetching is also inhibited with this option.
.It Fl q , Cm --quiet
Force quiet output.
This option is incompatible with
.Cm --dry-run
since the purpose is to show packages to be installed, upgraded or deleted.
.It Fl r Ar reponame , Cm --repository Ar reponame
This switch specifies that the given named repository shall be
considered the reference and only mirror to be used to download the
catalog, regardless of the repository configuration and
.Dq enabled
setting of that named repository.
.It Fl U , Fl -no-repo-update
Suppress the automatic update of the local copy of the repository catalog
from remote.
.It Fl y , Cm --yes
Assume yes when asked for confirmation before package installation.
.El
.Ss pkg-name matching algorithm
By default, the
.Ar pkg-name
pattern is considered to be a case-insensitive match against the start
of the namebase-subpackage-variant triplet identifier.
The following mutually exclusive options modify this default behavior.
.Bl -tag -width xxxx
.It Fl C , Cm --case-sensitive
Switch to glob matching of the
.Ar pattern .
which is inherently case-sensitive .
.It Fl E , Cm --exact-match
Disables explicit and implied wildcards so when the
.Ar pattern .
exactly matches the namebase-subpackage-variant
package name is successful.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables affect the execution of
.Nm .
See
.Xr rvn.conf 5
for further description.
.Bl -tag -width ".Ev NO_DESCRIPTIONS"
.It Ev ASSUME_ALWAYS_YES
.It Ev CASE_SENSITIVE_MATCH
.It Ev HANDLE_RC_SCRIPTS
.It Ev REPO_AUTOUPDATE
.It Ev RUN_SCRIPTS
.It Ev RVN_CACHEDIR
.It Ev RVN_DBDIR
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rvn-keywords 5 ,
.Xr rvn-lua-scripts 5 ,
.Xr rvn-repository 5 ,
.Xr rvn-scripts 5 ,
.Xr rvn-triggers 5 ,
.Xr rvn.conf 5 ,
.Xr rvn 8 ,
.Xr rvn-alias 8 ,
.Xr rvn-annotate 8 ,
.Xr rvn-audit 8 ,
.Xr rvn-autoremove 8 ,
.Xr rvn-catalog 8 ,
.Xr rvn-check 8 ,
.Xr rvn-clean 8 ,
.Xr rvn-config 8 ,
.Xr rvn-create 8 ,
.Xr rvn-fetch 8 ,
.Xr rvn-genrepo 8 ,
.Xr rvn-info 8 ,
.Xr rvn-install 8 ,
.Xr rvn-query 8 ,
.Xr rvn-remove 8 ,
.Xr rvn-rquery 8 ,
.Xr rvn-search 8 ,
.Xr rvn-shell 8 ,
.Xr rvn-shlib 8 ,
.Xr rvn-stats 8 ,
.Xr rvn-version 8 ,
.Xr rvn-which 8
