.Dd May 25, 2024
.Dt RVN-SEARCH 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm "rvn search"
.Nd search package repository catalog
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl U
.Op Fl r Ar reponame
.Op Fl CEg
.Op Fl cdnt
.Op Fl q
.Op Fl Q Ar query-modifier
.Ar search-pattern
.Pp
.Nm
.Op Cm --no-repo-update
.Op Cm --repository Ar reponame
.Op Cm --{case-sensitive,exact-match,glob}
.Op Cm --{comment,description,namebase,triplet}
.Op Cm --quiet
.Op Cm --query-modifier Ar query-modifier
.Ar search-pattern
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is used for searching the remote repository catalog.
Packages can be matched by the namebase (default), by the full
namebase-subpackage-variant triplet, by text within the package
short summary or the long description.
.Pp
If no query modifiers are set, the output is one line per
matched package consisting of the full package nsvv name and, if
.Ar quiet
is not set, the text of the searched field (comment, description,
namebase, or identifier triplet).
.Pp
If at least one query modifier is set, the output becomes multiple
lines per matched package.
The first line of output is the full package nsvv name.
There will be one additional display line per query modifier.
If
.Ar quiet
is set, the line consists solely of the value required by the modifier,
otherwise the line is preceeded by the modifier as a key.
.Pp
The package repository catalog will be automatically updated whenever
.Nm
is run by the effective superuser unless disabled by the
.Fl U
flag or setting
.Va REPO_AUTOUPDATE
to
.Dq Li NO
in
.Xr rvn.conf 5 .
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are supported by
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width xxxx
.It Fl q , Cm --quiet
Reduces output.
For the primary line, this option drops the full text of the searched
field which displays by default.
For query modifier lines, this option drops the modifier key to limit
the display to the modifier's retrieved data.
.It Fl r Ar reponame , Cm --repository Ar reponame
This switch specifies that the given named repository shall be
considered the reference and only mirror to be used to download the
catalog, regardless of the repository configuration and
.Dq enabled
setting of that named repository.
.It Fl U , Fl -no-repo-update
Suppress the automatic update of the local copy of the repository catalog
from remote.
.El
.Ss Mutually exclusive search fields
The
.Ar search-pattern
is applied to one of four possible search fields:
.Bl -tag -width xxxx
.It Fl c , Cm --comment
Search for packages whose one-line summary matches the search pattern.
.It Fl d , Cm --description
Search for packages whose description matches the search pattern.
.It Fl n , Cm --namebase
Search for packages whose namebase component of the full
namebase-subpackage-variant triplet identifier matches the
search pattern.
This is the default if no search field is specified.
.It Fl t , Cm --triplet
Search for packages whose full identifier matches the search pattern.
.El
.Ss Text-matching algorithm
By default, the
.Ar search-pattern
is considered to be a case-insensitive regular expression according
to the "modern" or "extended" syntax of
.Xr re_format 7 .
Effectively this matches any substring of the search field unless the
.Dq ^
anchor symbol is used at the start of the pattern.
The following mutually exclusive options modify this default behavior.
.Bl -tag -width xxxx
.It Fl C , Cm --case-sensitive
This option still processes the search pattern as a regular expression,
but changes the search to be case sensitive.
.It Fl E , Cm --exact-match
This option requires the searched data be equal to the search pattern.
This is case sensitive and the entire string must match for success.
.It Fl g , Cm --glob
This option treats the search pattern as a case-sensitive glob pattern.
.El
.Ss Output Modifier Options
Additional data from the repository catalog to print for each matched
package.
Multiple output modifiers can be combined.
The use of this option requires multiple lines to be displayed per match.
For brevity, any unambiguous prefix of the case-insensitive modifier
may be used.
Thus
.Fl "Q m" ,
.Fl "Q maint" ,
.Fl "Q maintainer" ,
and
.Fl "Q MAIN"
are all equivalent.
.Bl -tag -width xxxx
.It Sy an[notations]
Arbitrary text in tag-value format that can be added to any package.
.It Sy ab[i]
The architecture string indicating what OS version and CPU architecture
the package is suitable for.
.It Sy ca[tegories]
All categories to which the matched package belongs.
.It Sy co[mment]
The one line summary field describing the port variant.
All subpackages of the variant will have identical comments.
.It Sy dep[endencies]
The list of packages the named package depends on.
Dependency packages are listed in the nsvv format, one per line.
.It Sy des[cription]
The long multiline description of the matched package.
.It Sy f[ull]
Show a standard set of fields, equivalent to a combination of the
.Sy namebase ,
.Sy subpackage ,
.Sy variant ,
.Sy version ,
.Sy comment ,
.Sy categories ,
.Sy abi ,
.Sy licenses ,
.Sy www ,
.Sy maintainer ,
.Sy prefix ,
.Sy options ,
.Sy slr-shlibs-required ,
.Sy slp-shlibs-provided ,
.Sy annotations ,
.Sy size ,
.Sy rvnsize
and
.Sy description
fields, in that order.
.It Sy l[icenses]
Displays a list of all the licenses the package is released under on a
single line.
Where more than one license applies, precede with the word
.Sy [dual]
or
.Sy [multi]
depending on the port's license scheme.
.It Sy m[aintainer]
Display the maintainer's name and e-mail address.
.It Sy n[amebase]
Display the namebase component of the package identifier triplet.
.It Sy o[ptions]
Displays a potentially multiple-line list of the port options and their
setting determining how the package was built.
.It Sy p[refix]
Display the installation prefix for the package, usually
.Fa /raven .
.It Sy re[quired-by]
Displays all of the packages in the repository that require the matched
package as a dependency.
Dependency packages are listed in the nsvv format, one per line.
.It Sy rv[nsize]
Display the file size of the compressed archive file containing the
package files and installation scripts.
.It Sy slp[-shlibs-provided]
Displays a list of shared libraries contained in the package.
.It Sy slr[-shlibs-required]
Displays a list of shared libraries required by the packages dynamically
link ELF binaries.
Libraries provided by the host system are excluded.
.It Sy si[ze]
Displays the total amount of filesystem space the package files will
take up once unpacked and installed.
.It Sy su[bpackage]
Display the subpackage component of the package identifier triplet.
.It Sy va[riant]
Display the variant component of the package identifier triplet.
.It Sy ve[rsion]
Displays the version of the package, including revision numbers and epochs.
.It Sy w[ww]
Displays the official homepage of the software being distributed by the package.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables affect the execution of
.Nm .
See
.Xr rvn.conf 5
for further description.
.Bl -tag -width ".Ev NO_DESCRIPTIONS"
.It Ev RVN_DBDIR
.It Ev CASE_SENSITIVE_MATCH
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rvn-keywords 5 ,
.Xr rvn-lua-scripts 5 ,
.Xr rvn-repository 5 ,
.Xr rvn-scripts 5 ,
.Xr rvn-triggers 5 ,
.Xr rvn.conf 5 ,
.Xr rvn 8 ,
.Xr rvn-alias 8 ,
.Xr rvn-annotate 8 ,
.Xr rvn-audit 8 ,
.Xr rvn-autoremove 8 ,
.Xr rvn-catalog 8 ,
.Xr rvn-check 8 ,
.Xr rvn-clean 8 ,
.Xr rvn-config 8 ,
.Xr rvn-create 8 ,
.Xr rvn-fetch 8 ,
.Xr rvn-genrepo 8 ,
.Xr rvn-info 8 ,
.Xr rvn-install 8 ,
.Xr rvn-query 8 ,
.Xr rvn-remove 8 ,
.Xr rvn-rquery 8 ,
.Xr rvn-shell 8 ,
.Xr rvn-shlib 8 ,
.Xr rvn-stats 8 ,
.Xr rvn-upgrade 8 ,
.Xr rvn-version 8 ,
.Xr rvn-which 8
