.Dd June 2, 2024
.Dt RVN-REMOVE 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm "rvn remove"
.Nd removes packages from the database and the system
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl fInqy
.Op Fl CE
.Ar pattern ...
.Nm
.Op Fl fInqsy
.Fl a
.Pp
.Nm
.Op Cm --{force,no-scripts,dry-run,quiet,skip-verify,yes}
.Op Cm --{case-sensitive,exact-match}
.Ar pkg-name ...
.Nm
.Op Cm --{force,no-scripts,dry-run,quiet,yes}
.Cm --all
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is used for removing installed packages from the system.
.Nm
creates a list of all the installed packages matching the name patterns
on the command line.
The list is presented to the user for confirmation.
If the user confirms the operation, or if the
.Cm ASSUME_ALWAYS_YES
configuration option is set,
.Nm
proceeds to remove the listed packages.
.Pp
If the set of packages to be removed would leave installed packages
with unfulfilled dependencies,
.Nm
will add those affected packages to the list of packages to be removed,
unless forced to proceed without removing affected packages by the
.Fl f
option.
.Pp
.Nm
avoids removing itself unless named specifically on the command line.
So, for instance,
.Nm Fl a
will remove all packages except for the
.Xr rvn 8
package.
To force all packages to be removed without exception, use
.Nm Fl af .
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are supported by
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width recursive
.It Fl a , Cm --all
Removes all installed packages except for
.Xr rvn 8
from the system and deletes the package database.
.It Fl C , Cm --case-sensitive
Switch to glob matching of the
.Ar pattern .
which is inherently case-sensitive .
.It Fl E , Cm --exact-match
Disables explicit and implied wildcards so when the
.Ar pattern .
exactly matches the namebase-subpackage-variant
package name is successful.
.It Fl f , Cm --force
Forces packages to be removed despite leaving unresolved dependencies.
In combination with the
.Fl a
or
.Fl -all
flag, causes
.Xr rvn 8
to be removed as well as all other packages.
.It Fl I , Cm --no-scripts
If a deinstallation script exists for a given package, it will not be executed.
.It Fl n , Cm --dry-run
Dry run mode.
The list of packages to remove is always printed, but no packages are
actually deleted.
.It Fl q , Cm --quiet
Force quiet output, except where
.Fl n
is also used, when
.Nm
will show the list of packages to be removed.
.It Fl s , Cm --skip-verify
Before each file is deleted, a checksum verification is performed to
detect modifications after installation.
This option disables the verification check and error notices during removal.
.It Fl y , Cm --yes
Assume yes when asked for confirmation before package removal.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables affect the execution of
.Nm .
See
.Xr rvn.conf 5
for further description.
.Bl -tag -width ".Ev NO_DESCRIPTIONS"
.It Ev ASSUME_ALWAYS_YES
.It Ev HANDLE_RC_SCRIPTS
.It Ev RVN_DBDIR
.It Ev CASE_SENSITIVE_MATCH
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rvn-keywords 5 ,
.Xr rvn-lua-scripts 5 ,
.Xr rvn-repository 5 ,
.Xr rvn-scripts 5 ,
.Xr rvn-triggers 5 ,
.Xr rvn.conf 5 ,
.Xr rvn 8 ,
.Xr rvn-alias 8 ,
.Xr rvn-annotate 8 ,
.Xr rvn-audit 8 ,
.Xr rvn-autoremove 8 ,
.Xr rvn-catalog 8 ,
.Xr rvn-check 8 ,
.Xr rvn-clean 8 ,
.Xr rvn-config 8 ,
.Xr rvn-create 8 ,
.Xr rvn-fetch 8 ,
.Xr rvn-genrepo 8 ,
.Xr rvn-info 8 ,
.Xr rvn-install 8 ,
.Xr rvn-query 8 ,
.Xr rvn-rquery 8 ,
.Xr rvn-search 8 ,
.Xr rvn-shell 8 ,
.Xr rvn-shlib 8 ,
.Xr rvn-stats 8 ,
.Xr rvn-upgrade 8 ,
.Xr rvn-version 8 ,
.Xr rvn-which 8
