.Dd June 2, 2024
.Dt RVN-CATALOG 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm "rvn catalog"
.Nd ensures local catalog is in sync with remote repository
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl fq
.Op Fl r Ar reponame
.Pp
.Nm
.Op Cm --{force,quiet}
.Op Cm --repository Ar reponame
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is used for updating the local copy of the repository catalog
from the remote package repositories.
The master repository is the reference for the latest catalog.
The client may define other non-master repositories to act as mirrors.
The defined priority dictates the order the repositories are checked,
but once a download catalog matches the master reference, the process
is complete.
.Pp
The repositories are defined by the configuration files in located in the
repository configuration directories defined by REPOS_DIR which is set to
.Pa /etc/rvn
or
.Pa /raven/etc/rvn/repos
by default.
See
.Xr rvn.conf 5
for details.
.Pp
It is best practice to ensure the local package repository catalogs are
up to date before doing any package installation (via
.Xr rvn-install 8 )
or upgrades (via
.Xr rvn-upgrade 8 ) .
However, explicitly running
.Nm
is not necessary.
By default both of these commands start by updating the repository
catalog unless inhibited by setting
.Ev REPO_AUTOUPDATE
to false in
.Xr rvn.conf 5
or setting the equivalent by the command line switches.
.Pp
However, the REPO_AUTOUPDATE setting is ignored by
.Nm .
.Ss Signed repositories
If the repository catalog is signed, the signature will be verified
after download.
Any catalog that fails signature verification is discarded.
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are supported by
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width quiet
.It Fl q , Cm --quiet
Force quiet output on non-errors.
.It Fl f , Cm --force
Force a full download of the repository catalog without regard to the
respective ages of the local and remote copies of the catalog.
.It Fl r Ar reponame , Cm --repository Ar reponame
This switch specifies that the given named repository shall be
considered the reference and only mirror to be used to download the
catalog, regardless of the repository configuration and
.Dq enabled
setting of that named repository.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables affect the execution of
.Nm .
.Bl -tag -width ".Ev NO_DESCRIPTIONS"
.It Ev RVN_DBDIR
.It Ev REPOS_DIR
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rvn-keywords 5 ,
.Xr rvn-lua-scripts 5 ,
.Xr rvn-repository 5 ,
.Xr rvn-scripts 5 ,
.Xr rvn-triggers 5 ,
.Xr rvn.conf 5 ,
.Xr rvn 8 ,
.Xr rvn-alias 8 ,
.Xr rvn-annotate 8 ,
.Xr rvn-audit 8 ,
.Xr rvn-autoremove 8 ,
.Xr rvn-check 8 ,
.Xr rvn-clean 8 ,
.Xr rvn-config 8 ,
.Xr rvn-create 8 ,
.Xr rvn-fetch 8 ,
.Xr rvn-genrepo 8 ,
.Xr rvn-info 8 ,
.Xr rvn-install 8 ,
.Xr rvn-query 8 ,
.Xr rvn-remove 8 ,
.Xr rvn-rquery 8 ,
.Xr rvn-search 8 ,
.Xr rvn-shell 8 ,
.Xr rvn-shlib 8 ,
.Xr rvn-stats 8 ,
.Xr rvn-upgrade 8 ,
.Xr rvn-version 8 ,
.Xr rvn-which 8
