.Dd May 3, 2025
.Dt RVN-STATS 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm "rvn stats"
.Nd display package database statistics
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl lcd
.Op Fl qU
.Op Fl r Ar reponame
.Pp
.Nm
.Op Cm --{local,catalog,downloads}
.Op Cm --{quiet,no-repo-update}
.Op Cm --repository Ar reponame
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is used to display some statistics about the package databases.
.Pp
The report on the remote catalog displays
the total number of available subpackages,
the total number of variants (related subpackage grouped),
the total number of ports (related variants grouped),
the combined size of the packages in IEC units,
the combined size of the extracted files in IEC units.
.Pp
The report on the locally installed packages displays
the total number of installed subpackages,
the number of packages in the variant subset,
the number of packages in the port subset,
the disk space occupied by the installed packages in bytes,
and the disk space occupied by the installed packages in IEC units.
.Pp
The report on the local cache of downloaded packages displays
the number of current cached package files, the number of
obsolete cached package files (which can be removed with the
.Cm rvn clean
command),
and the disk space occupied by each type in IEC units. 
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are supported by
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width remote
.It Fl c , Cm --catalog
Display statistics for the remote catalog database.
Assumed true if no sections are specified.
.It Fl l , Cm --local
Display statistics for the installed package database.
Assumed true if no sections are specified.
.It Fl d , Cm --downloads
Display statistics for the cached downloaded package files.
Assumed true if no sections are specified.
.It Fl r Ar reponame , Cm --repository Ar reponame
This switch specifies that the given named repository shall be
considered the reference and only mirror to be used to download the
catalog, regardless of the repository configuration and
.Dq enabled
setting of that named repository.
.It Fl q , Cm --quiet
Inhibits messages during catalog check and update.
.It Fl U , Cm --no-repo-update
Suppress the automatic update of the local copy of the repository catalog
from remote.
Automatic repository catalog updates are only attempted when the
effective UID of the process has write access to the package database,
otherwise the update attempt is skipped.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables affect the execution of
.Nm .
See
.Xr rvn.conf 5
for further description.
.Bl -tag -width ".Ev NO_DESCRIPTIONS"
.It Ev RVN_DBDIR
.It Ev REPO_AUTOUPDATE
.El
.Sh FILES
See
.Xr rvn-keywords 5 ,
.Xr rvn-lua-scripts 5 ,
.Xr rvn-scripts 5 ,
.Xr rvn.conf 5 ,
.Xr rvn 8 ,
.Xr rvn-alias 8 ,
.Xr rvn-catalog 8 ,
.Xr rvn-config 8 ,
.Xr rvn-create 8 ,
.Xr rvn-genrepo 8 ,
.Xr rvn-info 8 ,
.Xr rvn-shell 8 ,
.Xr rvn-shlib 8 ,
.Xr rvn-version 8 ,
.Xr rvn-which 8