.Dd May 14, 2023
.Dt RVN-REPOSITORY 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm repository
.Nd format and operation of Ravenports package repositories
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm "Package repositories"
used by the
.Xr rvn 8
program consist of integral mirrored collections of rvn-formatted archives
together with a catalog and catalog digest.
.Pp
Each collection consist of packages suitable for installation on a
specific system
.Sy ABI :
a combination of operating system, CPU architecture, and minimum OS release.
.Pp
The package collections are made available to users for download via a
web server although three other protocols are currently available.
Embedding the
.Sy ABI
value into the repository URL allows
.Nm rvn
to use a standard URL setting to select the correct package collection
by expanding the special token
.Cm ${ABI}
in the repository configuration files.
.Pp
Repositories may be mirrored over several sites.
This can done seemlessly with a single repository configuration
using DNS service records (SRV) or through multiple configurations
where one repository is considered the reference and the remaining
are expected to be perfect mirror copies.
.Sh FILESYSTEM ORGANIZATION
The following constraints on the repository layout must be met:
.Bl -bullet
.It
A repository may contain several package collections with parallel
.Cm REPOSITORY_ROOTs
in order to support diverse system
.Cm ABIs .
.It
All of the content for one
.Sy ABI
should be accessible in a filesystem or URL hierarchy beneath the
.Cm REPOSITORY_ROOT .
.It
All packages available beneath one
.Cm REPOSITORY_ROOT
should be binary compatible with a specific system
.Cm ABI .
.It
The repository catalog archive is located directly under the
.Cm REPOSITORY_ROOT .
.El
.Pp
The metadata contained within the repository catalog is sufficient
to calculate the full URL of the package given the path to the
.Cm REPOSITORY_ROOT .
.Pp
The filesystem hierarchy of the repository is fixed for simplicity:
.Bl -tag -width "REPOSITORY"
.It Pa $REPOSITORY_ROOT/files
This subdirectory contains every package listed in the catalog, all
compatible with the defined
.Sy ABI .
Packages are stored as rvn archives with a predictable filename in the
form of <Namebase>-<Subpackage>-<Variant>-<Version>.rvn .
This subdirectory should not contain extra packages that are not
listed in the catalog.
.It Pa $REPOSITORY_ROOT/catalog.rvn
This rvn archive contains the catalog file named
.Qq catalog.ucl .
Each line of the catalog file contains the full metadata for a single
package.
If the repository is signed, this archive will also contain a file
named
.Qq signature
that is a signed Blake3 digest of the catalog file.
If the client is expected to verify the signature with a fingerprint,
the public key needed to do this is provided within the archive as the
.Qq repository.pub
file.
.It Pa $REPOSITORY_ROOT/catalog.sum
This small file contains the hexidecimal representation of the Blake3
digest of the catalog.ucl file.
When multiple repositories are defined, the client will download this
file from the repository designated as the master in order to verify
the mirrors have the exact same catalog.
If the mirror's catalog does not match the the master's, the mirror
will not be used.
.El
.Pp
The repository is expected to be complete with full integrity.
Every dependency of every package must be contained within the files
subdirectory.
.Sh REPOSITORY ACCESS METHODS
.Nm rvn
uses standard network protocols for repository access.
The following URL schemes are supported:
.Cm ( HTTP ,
.Cm HTTPS ,
.Cm FILE ,
.Cm TCP )
as well as remote access over
.Cm SSH .
Additional environmental variables affect the download including
.Ev SSL_NO_VERIFY_PEER ,
.Ev SSL_NO_VERIFY_HOSTNAME ,
.Ev HTTP_PROXY ,
.Ev SSL_CLIENT_KEY_FILE ,
.Ev SSL_CLIENT_CERT_FILE ,
.Ev SSL_CA_CERT_FILE and
.Ev NETRC .
.Sh REPOSITORY MIRRORING
Multiple copies of a repository can be provided for redundance or
to scale up site capacity.
There is currently only one possiblity to support mirrors sets
with a single URL.
.Bl -tag -width "HTTP"
.It Cm SRV
For an SRV mirrored repository where the URL is specified as
.Pa http://pkgrepo.example.org/
.Cm SRV
records should be set up in the DNS:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ORIGIN example.com
_http._tcp.pkgrepo IN SRV 10 1 80 mirror0
                   IN SRV 20 1 80 mirror1
.Ed
.Pp
where the
.Cm SRV
priority and weight parameters are used to control search order and
traffic weighting between sites, and the port number and hostname are
used to construct the individual mirror URLs.
.El
.Pp
Mirrored repositories are assumed to have identical content, so the
downloaded catalog is assumed to be the reference for all potentially
reached mirror sites.
.Sh WORKING WITH MULTIPLE REPOSITORIES
When multiple repositories are enabled, exactly one must be designated
as the master reference.
If none are designated, a notice will be issued and the highest rated
repository (order by highest priority, then highest alphabetically)
will be exclusively used.
If multiple enabled repositories are marked as master, a notice will
be issued and the lower rated masters will be downgrounded to mirrors.
.Pp
The master repository always provides the catalog.sum file.
The remaining dowloads (packages, catalog) will come from the
highest rated repository.
The lower rated repositories (including the master repository) will not
be used unless the client can not reach the higher rated ones first.
The exception to this is if the user specifies a certain repository by the
.Fl r
flag to
.Xr rvn-fetch 8 ,
.Xr rvn-install 8 ,
.Xr rvn-upgrade 8 ,
.Xr rvn-search 8
or
.Xr rvn-rquery 8
commands.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rvn-keywords 5 ,
.Xr rvn-lua-scripts 5 ,
.Xr rvn-scripts 5 ,
.Xr rvn-triggers 5 ,
.Xr rvn.conf 5 ,
.Xr rvn 8 ,
.Xr rvn-alias 8 ,
.Xr rvn-annotate 8 ,
.Xr rvn-audit 8 ,
.Xr rvn-autoremove 8 ,
.Xr rvn-catalog 8 ,
.Xr rvn-check 8 ,
.Xr rvn-clean 8 ,
.Xr rvn-config 8 ,
.Xr rvn-create 8 ,
.Xr rvn-fetch 8 ,
.Xr rvn-genrepo 8 ,
.Xr rvn-info 8 ,
.Xr rvn-install 8 ,
.Xr rvn-query 8 ,
.Xr rvn-remove 8 ,
.Xr rvn-rquery 8 ,
.Xr rvn-search 8 ,
.Xr rvn-shell 8 ,
.Xr rvn-shlib 8 ,
.Xr rvn-stats 8 ,
.Xr rvn-upgrade 8 ,
.Xr rvn-version 8 ,
.Xr rvn-which 8
