.Dd May 14, 2024
.Dt RVN-CLEAN 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm "rvn clean"
.Nd clean the local cache of downloaded packages
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl anqy
.Pp
.Nm
.Op Fl -{all,dry-run,quiet,yes}
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is used to cleanup the local cache of packages downloaded from remote
repositories.
It removes packages that have been superseded by newer versions or
that are absent from the catalog entirely.
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are supported by
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width F1
.It Fl a , Fl -all
Delete all cached packages including those that are still current.
.It Fl n , Fl -dry-run
This option shows what packages would be deleted without actually
deleting them, even when used with
.Fl y .
.It Fl q , Fl -quiet
Be quiet.
Suppress most output.
All output is suppressed if
.Fl y
is also used.
.It Fl y , Fl -yes
Assume a yes answer instead of asking for confirmation before deleting
packages from the cache.
.El
.Pp
Setting all four switches at once is not permitted as it is pointless.
No output would be seen by the user, yet no change would occur due to
being a dry run.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables affect the execution of
.Nm .
See
.Xr rvn.conf 5
for further description.
.Bl -tag -width ".Ev NO_DESCRIPTIONS"
.It Ev ASSUME_ALWAYS_YES
.It Ev RVN_CACHEDIR
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rvn-keywords 5 ,
.Xr rvn-lua-scripts 5 ,
.Xr rvn-scripts 5 ,
.Xr rvn.conf 5 ,
.Xr rvn 8 ,
.Xr rvn-catalog 8 ,
.Xr rvn-config 8 ,
.Xr rvn-create 8 ,
.Xr rvn-genrepo 8 ,
.Xr rvn-info 8 ,
.Xr rvn-install 8 ,
.Xr rvn-shell 8 ,
.Xr rvn-shlib 8 ,
.Xr rvn-version 8 ,
.Xr rvn-which 8