.Dd May 22, 2024
.Dt QUERY-FORMAT 7
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm "rvn query format"
.Nd Description of rvn query parameters
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The query format is used by
.Nm rvn query
and
.Nm rvn rquery
commands to interogate the installed package and catalog database
respectively.
There are two categories of keywords: those used to specify the
data to display and those used to select which packages to return.
.Sh QUERY FORMAT
There are two types of keywords for the display format: the multiline
and the normal one.
The normal one returns a single line per package while the multiline
keywords have no line limit.
Queries are restricted to a single multiline keyword.
A few descriptions are preceded by an asterisk which signifies that
the keyword is specific to the installed package database and will
return nothing / zero if used on the catalog database.
.Ss Normal patterns
.Bl -tag -width _xxxxxxxxxx_
.It Cm {name}
Namebase component of the matched package name triplet
.It Cm {subpkg}
Subpackage component of the matched package name triplet
.It Cm {variant}
Variant component of the matched package name triplet
.It Cm {nsv}
Namebase-Subpackage-Variant package name triplet
.It Cm {version}
Version of the matched package
.It Cm {prefix}
Installation prefix of the matched package
.It Cm {maint}
Maintainer of the matched package
.It Cm {comment}
Single line summary of the matched package
.It Cm {desc}
Long description of the matched package
.It Cm {www}
Home page of the matched package
.It Cm {abi}
A triple tuple containing the operating system name, the CPU architecture,
and the operating system release.
Example:
.Dq dragonfly:x86_64:6.4
.It Cm {logic}
Description of the license scheme defined in the package specification.
One of
.Dq solo ,
.Dq dual ,
.Dq multi
.It Cm {size:bytes}
Combined size of the files in bytes after extracting them from rvn archive
.It Cm {size:iec}
Combined size of the extract files expressed in IEC format (KiB, MiB, etc)
.It Cm {auto}
* Returns 1 if this package was automatically installed as a dependency of
another package, 0 otherwise.
This allows the package to be automatically removed via
.Nm rvn autoremove
when zero packages depend on it.
.It Cm {timestamp}
* Unix timestamp indicating when the package was installed
.It Cm {#deps}
Number of dependencies required by this package
.It Cm {#rdeps}
Number of packages that require this package
.It Cm {#cats}
Number of categories listed in the package specification
.It Cm {#opts}
Number of options defined for this package
.It Cm {#lics}
Number of unique licenses defined for this package
.It Cm {#shreq}
Number of shared libraries this package requires
.It Cm {#shpro}
Number of shared libraries this package provides
.It Cm {#shadj}
Number of shared libraries provided by sibling subpackages
.It Cm {#notes}
Number of annotations encoded into the package
.It Cm {#files}
* Number of files this package installs
.It Cm {#dirs}
* Number of empty directories this package creates
.It Cm {#users}
* Number of users this package will create as necessary
.It Cm {#groups}
* Number of groups this package will create as necessary
.El
.Ss Multiline patterns
.Bl -tag -width _xxxxxxxxxx_
.It Cm {xdep:n}
Expands package result to include the namebase of all dependencies.
May be used with other xdep: patterns.
.It Cm (xdep:s}
Expands package result to include the subpackage of all dependencies.
May be used with other xdep: patterns.
.It Cm {xdep:v}
Expands package result to include the variant of all dependencies.
May be used with other xdep: patterns.
.It Cm {xdep:nsv}
Expands package result to include the full NSV triplet name of all dependencies.
May be used with other xdep: patterns.
.It Cm {xdep:ver}
Expands package result to include the version of all dependencies.
May be used with other xdep: patterns.
.It Cm {xrdep:n}
Expands package result to include the namebase of all reverse dependencies.
May be used with other xrdep: patterns.
.It Cm {xrdep:s}
Expands package result to include the subpackage of all reverse dependencies.
May be used with other xrdep: patterns.
.It Cm {xrdep:v}
Expands package result to include the variant of all reverse dependencies.
May be used with other xrdep: patterns.
.It Cm {xrdep:nsv}
Expands package result to include the full NSV triplet name of all reverse
dependencies.
May be used with other xrdep: patterns.
.It Cm {xrdep:ver}
Expands package result to include the version of all reverse dependencies.
May be used with other xrdep: patterns.
.It Cm {xcat}
Expands package result to include all defined categories.
.It Cm {xlic}
Expands package result to include all defined licenses.
.It Cm {xshreq}
Expands package result to include all required shared libraries.
.It Cm {xshpro}
Expands package result to include all provided shared libraries.
.It Cm {xshadj}
Expands package result to include all subpackage-sibling provided libraries.
.It Cm {xnote:key}
Expands package result to include the tags of all defined annotations.
May be used with the xnote:val pattern.
.It Cm {xnote:val}
Expands package result to include the tags of all defined annotations.
May be used with the xnote:key pattern.
.It Cm {xopt:key}
Expands package result to include defined option names.
May be used with the xopt:val pattern.
.It Cm {xopt:val}
Expands package result to include the built option settings.
May be used with the xopt:key pattern.
.It Cm {xfile:path}
* Expands package result to include the paths of all installed files.
May be used with the xfile:sum pattern.
.It Cm {xfile:sum}
* Expands package result to include the Blake3 digest of all installed files.
May be used with the xfile:path pattern.
.It Cm {xdir}
* Expands package result to include empty directory paths created upon
installation.
.It Cm {xuser}
* Expands package result to include all users that may be created during
installation.
.It Cm {xgroup}
* Expands package result to include all groups that may be created during
installation.
.El
.Sh EVALUATION FORMAT
Packages can be selected or excluded by using expressions comparing
.Ar Variables
(see below) to string or integer values.
The mode of comparison is specified by the
.Ar Operator
(also listed below).
Expressions can be combined using
.Dq &
(AND operator) and
.Dq |
(OR operator).
Parentheses can be used for grouping in the usual manner.
.Pp
String values are either any text not containing whitespace or any text
enclosed in single quotes.
.Ss Variables
.Bl -tag -width _xxxxxxxxxx_
.It Cm {name}
Namebase of the package
.It Cm {subpkg}
Subpackage of the package
.It Cm {variant}
Variant of the package
.It Cm {nsv}
Namebase-Subpackage-Variant package name triplet
.It Cm {abi}
Triplet identifying which platform the package is intended to run on.
.It Cm {prefix}
Installation prefix of the package
.It Cm {maint}
Maintainer of the package
.It Cm {comment}
Single line summary of the package
.It Cm {desc}
Long description of the package
.It Cm {www}
Official website of the package
.It Cm {flat}
Combined size in bytes of all files contained in the package
.It Cm {#deps}
(integer) Number of package dependencies
.It Cm {#rdeps}
(integer) Number of packages that need this one (reverse dependencies)
.It Cm {#cats}
(integer) Number of categories defined in the package
.It Cm {#opts}
(integer) Number of options defined in the package
.It Cm {#lics}
(integer) Number of licenses defined in the package
.It Cm {#shreq}
(integer) Number of shared libraries required by the package
.It Cm {#shpro}
(integer) Number of shared libraries provided by the package
.It Cm {#shadj}
(integer) Number of shared libraries provided by subpackage siblings
.It Cm {#notes}
(integer) Number of annotations defined in the package
.It Cm {auto}
* (integer) automatically installed flag (0 means explicitly installed)
.It Cm {timestamp}
* (integer) Unix timestamp for package installation time
.El
.Ss Operators
.Bl -tag -width F1
.It Va var Cm > Ns Oo = Oc Ar num
The numerical value of
.Va var
is greater than
.Op or equal to
the given number.
.It Va var Cm < Ns Oo = Oc Ar num
The numerical value of
.Va var
is less than
.Op or equal to
the given number.
.It Va var Cm eq Ar num
The value of
.Va var
is equal to the given number.
.It Va var Cm ne Ar num
The value of
.Va var
is not equal to the given number.
.It Va var Cm = Ar string
The value of
.Va var
is equivalent to the given string (case sensitive).
.It Va var Cm != Ar string
The value of
.Va var
is not equivalent to the given string (case sensitive).
.It Va var Cm ^ Ar string
The value of
.Va var
is equivalent to the given string (case insensitive).
.It Va var Cm !^ Ar string
The value of
.Va var
is not equivalent to the given string (case insensitive).
.It Va var Cm ~ Ar glob
The string value of
.Va var
matches the given glob pattern.
.It Va var Cm !~ Ar glob
The string value of
.Va var
does not match the given glob pattern.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rvn-query 8 ,
.Xr rvn-rquery 8
