.Dd June 3, 2024
.Dt RVN-ANNOTATE 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm "rvn annotate"
.Nd Manipulate installed package annotations
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Fl s
.Fl t
.Ar tag
.Fl n
.Ar note
.Op Fl qy
.Op Fl CEg
.Ar pattern
.Nm
.Fl d
.Fl t
.Ar tag
.Op Fl qy
.Op Fl CEg
.Ar pattern
.Nm
.Fl f
.Fl t
.Ar tag
.Op Fl CEg
.Ar pattern
.Pp
.Nm
.Cm --set
.Cm --tag
.Ar tag
.Cm --note
.Ar note
.Op Cm --{quiet,yes}
.Op Cm --{case-sensitive,exact-match,glob}
.Ar pattern
.Nm
.Cm --delete
.Cm --tag
.Ar tag
.Op Cm --{quiet,yes}
.Op Cm --{case-sensitive,exact-match,glob}
.Ar pattern
.Nm
.Cm --find
.Cm --tag
.Ar tag
.Op Cm --{case-sensitive,exact-match,glob}
.Ar pattern
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is used to define, modify and delete annotations associated with the
installed package.
Annotations are freeform tag-value pairs which may contain any
arbitrary text.
.Ar Tags
are unique per package, but there is no restriction on what text
.Ar values
may be attached to them.
.Pp
Custom annotations are persistent through upgrades.
However, if the package is removed and then installed again, any
manually added annotations will have been lost.
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are supported by
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width modify
.It Fl s , Cm --set
This operation defines a tag-value pair on all the matched packages.
If the tag has already been defined, the value will be updated.
.It Fl d , Cm --delete
This operation removes any annotation mapped to the tag for all
the matched packages.
.It Fl f , Cm --find
This operation lists all packages with annotations identified by the
.Ar tag
and the values mapped to it.
.It Fl t Ar tag , Cm --tag Ar tag
This switch defines the tag used for all three operations.
.It Fl n Ar note , Cm --note Ar note
This switch defines the tag value used for the set operation.
.It Fl q , Cm --quiet
Limits output to the confirmation questions.
.It Fl y , Cm --yes
Assume "yes" as the answer to all questions.
.It Fl C , Cm --case-sensitive
This option still processes the search pattern as a regular expression,
but changes the search to be case sensitive.
.It Fl E , Cm --exact-match
This option requires the searched data be equal to the search pattern.
This is case sensitive and the entire string must match for success.
.It Fl g , Cm --glob
This option treats the search pattern as a case-sensitive glob pattern.
.El
.Pp
There is no specific
.Dq all
switch, but should it be desired to apply an operation to all installed
packages, use the pattern
.Dq ^.
to select them all with the default regular expression search.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables affect the execution of
.Nm .
See
.Xr rvn.conf 5
for further description.
.Bl -tag -width ".Ev NO_DESCRIPTIONS"
.It Ev RVN_DBDIR
.It Ev ASSUME_ALWAYS_YES
.It Ev CASE_SENSITIVE_MATCH
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Annotate the nginx package with the tag foo and a value of bar:
.Dl # rvn annotate -s -t foo -v bar nginx
.Pp
View all annotations on a package:
.Dl $ rvn info -A nginx
.Pp
Remove the annotation:
.Dl # rvn annotate -d -t foo nginx
.Pp
Show all packages with the foo annotation:
.Dl # rvn annotate --find -t foo
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rvn-keywords 5 ,
.Xr rvn-lua-scripts 5 ,
.Xr rvn-repository 5 ,
.Xr rvn-scripts 5 ,
.Xr rvn-triggers 5 ,
.Xr rvn.conf 5 ,
.Xr rvn 8 ,
.Xr rvn-alias 8 ,
.Xr rvn-audit 8 ,
.Xr rvn-autoremove 8 ,
.Xr rvn-catalog 8 ,
.Xr rvn-check 8 ,
.Xr rvn-clean 8 ,
.Xr rvn-config 8 ,
.Xr rvn-create 8 ,
.Xr rvn-fetch 8 ,
.Xr rvn-genrepo 8 ,
.Xr rvn-info 8 ,
.Xr rvn-install 8 ,
.Xr rvn-query 8 ,
.Xr rvn-remove 8 ,
.Xr rvn-rquery 8 ,
.Xr rvn-search 8 ,
.Xr rvn-shell 8 ,
.Xr rvn-shlib 8 ,
.Xr rvn-stats 8 ,
.Xr rvn-upgrade 8 ,
.Xr rvn-version 8 ,
.Xr rvn-which 8
