.Dd July 5, 2024
.Dt RVN-INFO 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm "rvn info"
.Nd display information for packages
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar pkg-name
.Nm
.Fl a
.Nm
.Op Fl ABbMDZdfIjopqrswNSVve
.Op Fl L | Fl l
.Op Fl UK
.Op Fl CEg
.Ar pkg-name
.Nm
.Op Fl ABbMDZdfIjopqRswNSVv
.Op Fl L | Fl l | Fl X
.Fl F Ar pkg-file
.Pp
.Nm
.Ar pkg-name
.Nm
.Cm --all
.Nm
.Op Cm --{annotations,required-shlibs,provided-shlibs}
.Op Cm --{install-message,description,remove-message,dependencies}
.Op Cm --{full,comment,adjacent-shlibs,options,prefix,quiet}
.Op Cm --{required-by,size,abi,namebase,subpackage,variant,version,exists}
.Op Cm --list-digests | --list-files
.Op Cm --{no-repo-update,catalog}
.Op Cm --{case-sensitive,exact-match,glob}
.Ar pkg-name
.Nm
.Op Cm --{annotations,required-shlibs,provided-shlibs}
.Op Cm --{install-message,description,remove-message,dependencies}
.Op Cm --{full,comment,adjacent-shlibs,options,prefix,quiet}
.Op Cm --{raw,size,abi,namebase,subpackage,variant,version}
.Op Cm --list-digests | --list-files | --list-extended
.Cm --file Ar pkg-file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is used for displaying information for packages.
.Pp
For installed packages, a case-insensitive match against the leading side
of the namebase-subpackage-variant triplet name is performed by default.
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are supported by
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width origin
.It Fl A , Cm --annotations
Display any annotations added to the package.
.It Fl a , Cm --all
Display all installed packages.
.It Fl B , Cm --required-shlibs
Display all shared libraries used by
.Ar pkg-name .
.It Fl b , Cm --provided-shlibs
Display all shared libraries provided by
.Ar pkg-name .
.It Fl C , Cm --case-sensitive
This option still processes the name pattern as a regular expression,
but changes the matching to be case sensitive.
.It Fl D , Cm --description
Show the long description for matching packages.
.It Fl d , Cm --dependencies
Display the list of packages on which
.Ar pkg-name
depends.
.It Fl E , Cm --exact-match
This option requires the namebase-subpackage-variant name to be
equal to the name pattern.
This is case sensitive and the entire string must match for success.
.It Fl e , Cm --exists
If
.Ar pkg-name
is installed and registered in the database, return 0, otherwise return 1.
Useful for checking whether the package is installed.
Requires --exact-match to also be set.
.It Fl F Ar pkg-file , Cm --file Ar pkg-file
Displays information from the package archive
.Ar pkg-file .
.It Fl f , Cm --full
Display full information about the packages matching
.Ar pkg-name .
.It Fl g , Cm --glob
This option treats the search pattern as a case-sensitive glob pattern.
.It Fl I , Cm --comment
Display the specified packages and their comments.
.It Fl j , Cm --adjacent-shlibs
Display all libraries that were present in the stage directory but not
present in this package.
They are likely packaged in a sister subpackage so any missing required shared
library on this list should not cause a notice to be emitted during packaging.
.It Fl L , Cm --list-digests
Display the digests of all files install by
.Ar pkg-name .
It is mutually exclusive with -l and -X options.
.It Fl l , Cm --list-files
Display all files installed by
.Ar pkg-name .
It is mutally exclusive with -L option and -X options
.It Fl X , Cm --list-extended
Display the long format of all files install by
.Ar pkg-name .
It is mutually exclusive with -l and -L options.
.It Fl M , Cm --install-message
Show the installation-time message for matching packages.
.It Fl Z , Cm --remove-message
Show the removal-time message for matching packages.
.It Fl N , Cm --namebase
Display the namebase (the first part of the package name triplet).
.It Fl o , Cm --options
Display option names and their settings, one line per option.
.It Fl p , Cm --prefix
Display the installation prefix for each package matching
.Ar pkg-name .
.It Fl q , Cm --quiet
When a single attribute is selected, this option will print the value(s) of
that attribute without a label.
This option is ignored when multiple attributes are selected.
.It Fl R , Cm --raw
Display the full UCL-formatted manifest for the packages matching
.Ar pkg-name .
.It Fl r , Cm --required-by
Display the list of packages which require
.Ar pkg-name .
.It Fl S , Cm --subpackage
Display the subpackage (the secondard part of the package name triplet).
.It Fl s , Cm --size
Display the total size of files installed by
.Ar pkg-name .
.It Fl V , Cm --variant
Display the variant (the third part of the package name triplet).
.It Fl v , Cm --version
Display the package version.
.It Fl w , Cm --abi
Display the ABI (operating system / Architecture / Release triplet).
.It Fl U , Cm --no-repo-update
Suppress the automatic update of the local copy of the repository catalog
from remote.
It can only be used if
.It Fl K, Cm --catalog
Change the database used from the locally installed packages to the
configured catalog.
This provides information on the latest available packages.
.El
.Pp
If no arguments are provided,
.Nm
outputs the name-subpackage-variant-version identifier along with the
package comment for all installed packages.
If only the
.Cm --quiet
argument is provided, only the identifier is shown.
With all other operational modes the
.Ar pkg-name
argument is required.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables affect the execution of
.Nm .
See
.Xr rvn.conf 5
for further description.
.Bl -tag -width ".Ev NO_DESCRIPTIONS"
.It Ev RVN_DBDIR
.It Ev CASE_SENSITIVE_MATCH
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rvn-keywords 5 ,
.Xr rvn-lua-scripts 5 ,
.Xr rvn-repository 5 ,
.Xr rvn-scripts 5 ,
.Xr rvn-triggers 5 ,
.Xr rvn.conf 5 ,
.Xr rvn 8 ,
.Xr rvn-alias 8 ,
.Xr rvn-annotate 8 ,
.Xr rvn-audit 8 ,
.Xr rvn-autoremove 8 ,
.Xr rvn-catalog 8 ,
.Xr rvn-check 8 ,
.Xr rvn-clean 8 ,
.Xr rvn-config 8 ,
.Xr rvn-create 8 ,
.Xr rvn-fetch 8 ,
.Xr rvn-genrepo 8 ,
.Xr rvn-install 8 ,
.Xr rvn-query 8 ,
.Xr rvn-remove 8 ,
.Xr rvn-rquery 8 ,
.Xr rvn-search 8 ,
.Xr rvn-shell 8 ,
.Xr rvn-shlib 8 ,
.Xr rvn-stats 8 ,
.Xr rvn-upgrade 8 ,
.Xr rvn-version 8 ,
.Xr rvn-which 8
