.Dd May 22, 2024
.Dt RVN-RQUERY 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm "rvn rquery"
.Nd query remote catalog
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ao query-format Ac Ao namebase-subpackage-variant Ac
.Pp
.Nm
.Op Fl a
.Ao query-format Ac
.Nm
.Op Fl U
.Op Fl CE
.Op Fl e Ao evaluation-condition Ac
.Op Fl r Ar reponame
.Ao query-format Ac Ao pattern Ac
.Pp
.Nm
.Op Cm --all
.Ao query-format Ac
.Nm
.Op Cm --no-repo-update
.Op Cm --{case-sensitive,exact-match}
.Op Cm --evaluate Ao evaluation-condition Ac
.Op Cm --repository Ar reponame
.Ao query-format Ac Ao pattern Ac
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is used for displaying information about remote packages listed in
the repository catalog.
The formatting for the queries is documented in the
.Sx QUERY FORMAT
section of
.Xr rvn-query-format 7
man page.
.Pp
By default, a case-insensitive match against the leading side
of the namebase-subpackage-variant triplet name is performed.
.Pp
The package repository catalog will be automatically updated whenever
.Nm
is run by the effective superuser unless disabled by the
.Fl U
flag or setting
.Va REPO_AUTOUPDATE
to
.Dq Li NO
in
.Xr rvn.conf 5 .
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are supported by
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width evaluate
.It Fl a , Cm --all
Match all packages from the database.
This switch is incompatible with the
.Ar pattern
argument.
.It Fl C , Cm --case-sensitive
Switch to glob matching of the
.Ar pattern .
which is inherently case-sensitive .
.It Fl E , Cm --exact-match
Disables explicit and implied wildcards so when the
.Ar pattern .
exactly matches the namebase-subpackage-variant
package name is successful.
.It Fl e , Cm --evaluate
Match packages using the given
.Ar evaluation-condition .
See
.Sx EVALUATION FORMAT
section of
.Xr rvn-query-format 7
for details.
.It Fl r Ar reponame , Cm --repository Ar reponame
This switch specifies that the given named repository shall be
considered the reference and only mirror to be used to download the
catalog, regardless of the repository configuration and
.Dq enabled
setting of that named repository.
.It Fl U , Fl -no-repo-update
Suppress the automatic update of the local copy of the repository catalog
from remote.
Automatic repository catalog updates are only attempted when the
effective UID of the process has write access to the package database,
otherwise the update attempt is skipped.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables affect the execution of
.Nm .
See
.Xr rvn.conf 5
for further description.
.Bl -tag -width ".Ev NO_DESCRIPTIONS"
.It Ev RVN_DBDIR
.It Ev CASE_SENSITIVE_MATCH
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh EXAMPLES
List all dependencies by package name-version:
.Dl $ rvn rquery '{xdep:n}-{xdep:v}' 'subversion-*'
.Pp
List all reverse dependencies for a package:
.Dl $ rvn query '{xrdep:nsv}' 'glib-primary-standard'
.Pp
List all files and their known checksums for a package:
.Dl $ rvn rquery '{xfile:sum} {xfile:path}' 'joe-single-standard'
.Pp
List unmaintained packages:
.Dl $ rvn rquery -e '{maint} = nobody' '{nsv}'
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rvn-keywords 5 ,
.Xr rvn-lua-scripts 5 ,
.Xr rvn-repository 5 ,
.Xr rvn-scripts 5 ,
.Xr rvn-triggers 5 ,
.Xr rvn.conf 5 ,
.Xr rvn 8 ,
.Xr rvn-alias 8 ,
.Xr rvn-annotate 8 ,
.Xr rvn-audit 8 ,
.Xr rvn-autoremove 8 ,
.Xr rvn-catalog 8 ,
.Xr rvn-check 8 ,
.Xr rvn-clean 8 ,
.Xr rvn-config 8 ,
.Xr rvn-create 8 ,
.Xr rvn-fetch 8 ,
.Xr rvn-genrepo 8 ,
.Xr rvn-info 8 ,
.Xr rvn-install 8 ,
.Xr rvn-query 8 ,
.Xr rvn-remove 8 ,
.Xr rvn-search 8 ,
.Xr rvn-shell 8 ,
.Xr rvn-shlib 8 ,
.Xr rvn-stats 8 ,
.Xr rvn-upgrade 8 ,
.Xr rvn-version 8 ,
.Xr rvn-which 8
