.Dd May 27, 2024
.Dt RVN-QUERY 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm "rvn query"
.Nd query installed packages database
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ao query-format Ac Ao namebase-subpackage-variant Ac
.Pp
.Nm
.Op Fl a
.Ao query-format Ac
.Nm
.Op Fl CE
.Op Fl e Ao evaluation-condition Ac
.Ao query-format Ac Ao pattern Ac
.Pp
.Nm
.Op Cm --all
.Ao query-format Ac
.Nm
.Op Cm --{case-sensitive,exact-match}
.Op Cm --evaluate Ao evaluation-condition Ac
.Ao query-format Ac Ao pattern Ac
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is used for displaying information about installed packages.
The formatting for the queries is documented in the
.Sx QUERY FORMAT
section of
.Xr rvn-query-format 7
man page.
.Pp
By default, a case-insensitive match against the leading side
of the namebase-subpackage-variant triplet name is performed.
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are supported by
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width evaluate
.It Fl a , Cm --all
Match all packages from the database.
This switch is incompatible with the
.Ar pattern
argument.
.It Fl C , Cm --case-sensitive
Switch to glob matching of the
.Ar pattern .
which is inherently case-sensitive .
.It Fl E , Cm --exact-match
Disables explicit and implied wildcards so when the
.Ar pattern .
exactly matches the namebase-subpackage-variant
package name is successful.
.It Fl e , Cm --evaluate
Match packages using the given
.Ar evaluation-condition .
See
.Sx EVALUATION FORMAT
section of
.Xr rvn-query-format 7
for details.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables affect the execution of
.Nm .
See
.Xr rvn.conf 5
for further description.
.Bl -tag -width ".Ev NO_DESCRIPTIONS"
.It Ev RVN_DBDIR
.It Ev CASE_SENSITIVE_MATCH
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh EXAMPLES
List all installed packages by fullname-version:
.Dl $ rvn query '{nsv}-{version}'
.Pp
List all dependencies by package name-version:
.Dl $ rvn query '{xdep:n}-{xdep:v}' 'subversion-*'
.Pp
List all reverse dependencies for a package, using glob:
.Dl $ rvn query -C '{xrdep:nsv}' 'perl-5.??-primary-standard'
.Pp
List all files and their known checksums for a package:
.Dl $ rvn query '{xfile:sum} {xfile:path}' 'joe-single-standard'
.Pp
List all files for all packages:
.Dl $ rvn query '{nsv} {xfile:path}'
.Pp
List all packages with no reverse dependencies:
.Dl $ rvn query -e '{#rdeps} = 0' '{name}:{subpkg}:{variant}'
.Pp
List non-automatic packages:
.Dl $ rvn query -e '{auto} = 0' '{nsv}'
.Pp
List automatic packages:
.Dl $ rvn query -e '{auto} = 1' '{nsv}'
.Pp
List unmaintained packages:
.Dl $ rvn query -e '{maint} = nobody' '{nsv}'
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rvn-keywords 5 ,
.Xr rvn-lua-scripts 5 ,
.Xr rvn-repository 5 ,
.Xr rvn-scripts 5 ,
.Xr rvn-triggers 5 ,
.Xr rvn.conf 5 ,
.Xr rvn 8 ,
.Xr rvn-alias 8 ,
.Xr rvn-annotate 8 ,
.Xr rvn-audit 8 ,
.Xr rvn-autoremove 8 ,
.Xr rvn-catalog 8 ,
.Xr rvn-check 8 ,
.Xr rvn-clean 8 ,
.Xr rvn-config 8 ,
.Xr rvn-create 8 ,
.Xr rvn-fetch 8 ,
.Xr rvn-genrepo 8 ,
.Xr rvn-info 8 ,
.Xr rvn-install 8 ,
.Xr rvn-remove 8 ,
.Xr rvn-rquery 8 ,
.Xr rvn-search 8 ,
.Xr rvn-shell 8 ,
.Xr rvn-shlib 8 ,
.Xr rvn-stats 8 ,
.Xr rvn-upgrade 8 ,
.Xr rvn-version 8 ,
.Xr rvn-which 8
