.Dd May 27, 2024
.Dt RVN-INSTALL 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm "rvn install"
.Nd install packages from remote package repositories
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl AMdfInFqUy
.Op Fl r Ar reponame
.Op Fl CE
.Ar pkg-name ...
.Pp
.Nm
.Op Cm --{automatic,manual,drop-depends,force,no-scripts}
.Op Cm --{dry-run,fetch-only,quiet,no-repo-update,yes}
.Op Cm --repository Ar reponame
.Op Cm --{case-sensitive,exact-match}
.Ar pkg-name ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is used for the installation of packages acquired from package repositories.
Multiple package names can be specified on the command line, either
explicitly or by pattern matching.
.Pp
.Nm
first acquires the latest repository category if necessary unless
.Cm REPO_AUTOUPDATE
has been set to
.Sy NO
in
.Pa rvn.conf .
.Pp
The list of packages matching the pkg-name pattern(s) are then examined.
Any package that is already installed and already at the latest version
is dropped unless the
.Fl f
(force) option is supplied, in which case those packages will be
reinstalled.
.Pp
The dependencies of packages in the list are recursively determined.
Any dependencies that aren't already installed are added to the queue.
These implicitly added packages are designated as candidates for
autoremoval (automatic flag is set).
See
.Xr rvn-autoremove 8
for details.
.Pp
Autoremoval flags are sticky, and they will persist over reinstallations
and upgrades even when explicitly specified on the command line.
See
.Xr rvn-query 8
for finding the autoremoval status of a package.
.Pp
Any already installed but outdated packages present in the queue will
be upgraded rather than dropped or reinstalled.
The queue is arranged by dependency order and
.Nm
will present it to the user for approval before proceeding unless
overridden by the
.Fl y
option or if
.Cm ASSUME_ALWAYS_YES
is set to
.Dq true
in
.Pa rvn.conf .
.Pp
Packages are fetched from the configured repository and stored into the
local package cache if they are not already present, or if the digest of the
cached package file differs from the version in the remote repository.
Packages will be downloaded from the highest priority mirror configured in
.Pa /usr/local/etc/rvn/repo .
See
.Xr rvn-repository 5
and
.Xr rvn.conf 5
for details.
.Pp
The remote repository catalog will be automatically updated whenever
.Nm
is run by a user ID with write access to the package database,
unless disabled by the
.Fl U
flag or setting
.Cm REPO_AUTOUPDATE
to
.Sy NO
in
.Xr rvn.conf 5 .
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are supported by
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width automatic
.It Fl A , Cm --automatic
When used in conjunction with the
.Cm --exact-match
switch, it will mark newly installed packages as automatic and similarly
it will set already installed packages as automatic.
This allows the
.Xr rvn-autoremove 8
command to automatically deinstall the package when no other package
requires it.
.It Fl M , Cm --manual
When used in conjunction with the
.Cm --exact-match
switch, it will mark newly installed dependency packages as non-automatic
and similarly it will set already installed automatic packages as
manual removals.
.It Fl F , Cm --fetch-only
With this option, the installation stops after the package files are
retrieved from the remote repository.
.It Fl d , Cm --drop-depends
Skip the recursive determination of dependency packages that need to
be installed to support the matched packages.
This option is dangerous; the potentially missing dependencies can
easily result in non-functional packages.
.It Fl f , Cm --force
Force the reinstallation of selected packages that are already installed
rather than dropping them from the queue.
.It Fl I , Cm --no-scripts
This option prevents the execution of installation scripts (pre-install or
post-install, Lua or shell) if they are provided with the package being
installed.
.It Fl n , Cm --dry-run
Dry-run mode.
The list of changes to packages is always printed, but no changes are
actually made.
Package fetching is also inhibited with this option.
.It Fl q , Cm --quiet
Force quiet output.
This option is incompatible with
.Cm --dry-run
since the purpose is to show packages to be installed, upgraded or deleted.
.It Fl r Ar reponame , Cm --repository Ar reponame
This switch specifies that the given named repository shall be
considered the reference and only mirror to be used to download the
catalog, regardless of the repository configuration and
.Dq enabled
setting of that named repository.
.It Fl U , Fl -no-repo-update
Suppress the automatic update of the local copy of the repository catalog
from remote.
.It Fl y , Cm --yes
Assume yes when asked for confirmation before package installation.
.El
.Ss pkg-name matching algorithm
By default, the
.Ar pkg-name
pattern is considered to be a case-insensitive match against the start
of the namebase-subpackage-variant triplet identifier.
The following mutually exclusive options modify this default behavior.
.Bl -tag -width xxxx
.It Fl C , Cm --case-sensitive
Switch to glob matching of the
.Ar pattern .
which is inherently case-sensitive .
.It Fl E , Cm --exact-match
Disables explicit and implied wildcards so when the
.Ar pattern .
exactly matches the namebase-subpackage-variant
package name is successful.
.El
.Sh SPECIAL OPTIONS
The following options are not intended for regular use and may be ignored.
.Bl -tag -width automatic
.It Cm --no-registration
Disable package registration into the local database.
The files are still installed and the scripts will be executed unless
.Fl I
or RUN_SCRIPTS disables that.
.It Cm --only-registration
The package manifest is registered into the local database without installing
any files or running any scripts or performing analysis of the files being
installed.
The sole purpose of this option is to support regression testing by the
Kyua testsuite.
.It Cm --file
This command installs one package directly (bypassing a repository) from a
local directory.
Any dependencies of the package will not be installed automatically.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables affect the execution of
.Nm .
See
.Xr rvn.conf 5
for further description.
.Bl -tag -width ".Ev NO_DESCRIPTIONS"
.It Ev ASSUME_ALWAYS_YES
.It Ev CASE_SENSITIVE_MATCH
.It Ev HANDLE_RC_SCRIPTS
.It Ev REPO_AUTOUPDATE
.It Ev RUN_SCRIPTS
.It Ev RVN_CACHEDIR
.It Ev RVN_DBDIR
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rvn-keywords 5 ,
.Xr rvn-lua-scripts 5 ,
.Xr rvn-repository 5 ,
.Xr rvn-scripts 5 ,
.Xr rvn-triggers 5 ,
.Xr rvn.conf 5 ,
.Xr rvn 8 ,
.Xr rvn-alias 8 ,
.Xr rvn-annotate 8 ,
.Xr rvn-audit 8 ,
.Xr rvn-autoremove 8 ,
.Xr rvn-catalog 8 ,
.Xr rvn-check 8 ,
.Xr rvn-clean 8 ,
.Xr rvn-config 8 ,
.Xr rvn-create 8 ,
.Xr rvn-fetch 8 ,
.Xr rvn-genrepo 8 ,
.Xr rvn-info 8 ,
.Xr rvn-query 8 ,
.Xr rvn-remove 8 ,
.Xr rvn-rquery 8 ,
.Xr rvn-search 8 ,
.Xr rvn-shell 8 ,
.Xr rvn-shlib 8 ,
.Xr rvn-stats 8 ,
.Xr rvn-upgrade 8 ,
.Xr rvn-version 8 ,
.Xr rvn-which 8
