.Dd May 12, 2024
.Dt RVN-GENREPO 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm "rvn genrepo"
.Nd create a package repository catalog
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl q
.Op Fl k Ar private-key
.Op Fl p Ar public-key
.Op Fl x Ar sign-command
.Op Fl f Ar output-file
.Ao Ar repo-path Ac
.Pp
.Nm
.Op Cm --quiet
.Op Cm --key Ar private-key
.Op Cm --pubkey Ar public-key
.Op Cm --external Ar sign-command
.Op Cm --fingerprint Ar output-path
.Ao Ar repo-path Ac
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is used to create a catalog of the packages available in a repository.
Catalogs enable the publication of the package repository
and are intrinsic to the operation of
.Nm "rvn install"
or
.Nm "rvn upgrade" .
.Pp
The repository generation process creates two files named
.Pa catalog.sum
and
.Pa catalog.rvn .
The content of those files are based on the packages prepositioned
in the
.Pa files
subdirectory .
The complete repository consists of those two files and the subdirectory.
.Pp
The
.Pa catalog.rvn
archive contains at least one file, the
.Pa metadata.ucl
catalog, which contains the defining information for a package
on a single line compatible with a UCL parser.
There is one line per package stored in the repository.
An additional field will contain the Blake3 sum of the package as well
for integrity verification.
All of the dependency information for each package is provided in this file.
If the respository is signed, the catalog package will contain the
signature of the Blake3 digest of the
.Pa metadata.ucl
file.
If the repository is signed externally to be verified via fingerprint,
the catalog package will also contain the public key used to verify
the digest.
.Pp
The
.Pa catalog.sum
file contains the Blake3 digest of the
.Pa catalog.rvn
file.
This allows repository mirrors to be used for the catalog and the
packages of the repository.
.Pp
Repository users download these files to their local machines, where
they are processed into one sqlite database per repository to enable
the fast lookup of available packages.
.Pp
To create a package repository catalog, specify the top-level
directory beneath which all the packages are stored in the
.Pa files
subdirectory of the
.Ar repo-path .
The two generated files will be created in the top-level repository directory.
.Pp
Optionally the repository catalog may be cryptographically signed.
There are three methods to accomplish this.
A private RSA key can sign the Blake3 hash of catalog file, requiring the
consumer to have a copy of the public key, the public key can be packaged
with the metadata and the signature, requiring the consumer to know the
fingerprint of the public key, or an external signing command can be used
which also requires the client to provide the RSA fingerprint.
.Pp
The external command allows the use of a signing server to keep the
private key separate from the repository.
While the signing program may be created, this is not necessary as the
.Nm ravensign
program is distributed with
.Nm rvn .
The external command is appended with the hex-encoded Blake3 hash of the
repository catalogue.
The signing server should respond with text in the following format:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
SIGNATURE
binary signature data here
CERT
public RSA key here
END
.Ed
.Pp
When using an external command, the client's
.Pa rvn.conf
must have
.Sy SIGNATURE_TYPE
set to
.Dv FINGERPRINTS
and
.Sy FINGERPRINTS
set to a directory having a
.Pa trusted
directory containing a fingerprint style representation of the public key:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
function: "blake3"
fingerprint: "<blake3-hash-of-public-key>"
.Ed
.Pp
Signing the catalogue is strongly recommended.
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are supported by
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width quiet
.It Fl q , Cm --quiet
Force quiet output.
.It Fl k , Cm --key Ar private-key
Path to RSA private key.
When used alone, the client side should use SIGNATURE_TYPE set to PUBKEY
and PUBKEY set to a local path of the RSA public key in its repository
configuration file.
.It Fl p , Cm --pubkey Ar public-key
Path to RSA public key.
Setting this requires
.Cm --key
to also be set, and forces the client to set the SIGNATURE_TYPE
to FINGERPRINTS .
.It Fl x , Cm --external Ar sign-command
This switch must not be used with the
.Cm --key
or
.Cm --pubkey
switches.
The
.Ar sign-command
output will allow
.Nm
to package the signature and the RSA public key with the catalog.
This requires the client to set the SIGNATURE_TYPE to FINGERPRINTS.
.It Fl f , Cm --fingerprint Ar output-path
This option will create a fingerprint configuration file with the path
.Ar output-path
but only in conjunction with the options
.Cm --pubkey
or
.Cm --sign-command .
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Create an RSA key pair:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
% openssl genrsa -out repo.key 2048
% chmod 0400 repo.key
% openssl rsa -in repo.key -out repo.pub -pubout
.Ed
.Pp
Create a repository and sign it with a local RSA key.
The public key would be shared on all client servers with
.Sy SIGNATURE_TYPE
set to
.Dv PUBKEY
and its path set via
.Sy PUBKEY
setting in the repository configuration file:
.Pp
.Dl rvn genrepo --key repo.key /var/ravenports/primary/packages
.Pp
Create a repository and sign it with an external command.
The client should set, via the repository configuration file,
.Sy SIGNATURE_TYPE
to
.Dv FINGERPRINTS
and
.Sy FINGERPRINTS
to a path containing the public key's fingerprint.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# On signing server pick a location, e.g. /usr/local
# The keys are relatively located ../etc/ravensign from the tool
#
# install ravensign tool at /usr/local/bin/
# install private key at /usr/local/etc/ravensign/rvnrepo.key
# install public key  at /usr/local/etc/ravensign/rvnrepo.pub

# On package server:
% rvn genrepo --external "/usr/bin/ssh <sign-server> ravensign" -f ~/primary.fingerprint /var/ravenports/primary/packages
# or if not on the standard search path, use full path, e.g.
% rvn genrepo --external "/usr/bin/ssh <sign-server> /opt/bin/ravensign" -f ~/primary.fingerprint /var/ravenports/primary/packages

# The command above generated a fingerprint file for the built directory
# The file or its contents should be published on a trusted site so the clients
# can install it to be included in the repository configuration, e.g.
# client> mkdir -p /raven/etc/keys/rvn/trusted
# client> cp primary.fingerprint /raven/etc/keys/rvn/trusted/
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rvn-keywords 5 ,
.Xr rvn-lua-scripts 5 ,
.Xr rvn-scripts 5 ,
.Xr rvn.conf 5 ,
.Xr rvn 8 ,
.Xr rvn-alias 8 ,
.Xr rvn-catalog 8 ,
.Xr rvn-config 8 ,
.Xr rvn-create 8 ,
.Xr rvn-info 8 ,
.Xr rvn-install 8 ,
.Xr rvn-shell 8 ,
.Xr rvn-shlib 8 ,
.Xr rvn-version 8 ,
.Xr rvn-which 8
