.Dd May 12, 2024
.Dt RVN 8
.Os
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh NAME
.Nm rvn
.Nd Ravenports package manager
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl d
.Op Fl l
.Op Fl c Ao chroot path Ac | Fl r Ao root directory Ac
.Op Fl C Ao configuration file Ac
.Op Fl o Ao option=value Ac
.Op Fl R Ao repository configuration directory Ac
.Op Fl 4 | Fl 6
.Ao command Ac Ao Ar command-arguments Ac
.Pp
.Nm
.Op Cm --version
.Op Cm --debug
.Op Cm --list
.Op Cm --status-check
.Op Cm --chroot Ao chroot path Ac | Cm --rootdir Ao root directory Ac
.Op Cm --config Ao configuration file Ac
.Op Cm --option Ao option=value Ac
.Op Cm --repo-conf-dir Ao repository configuration directory Ac
.Op Fl 4 | Fl 6
.Ao command Ac Ao Ar command-arguments Ac
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm rvn
provides an interface for manipulating packages from Ravenports: installing,
adding, inspecting, removing and upgrading packages.
See
.Xr rvn.conf 5
for details.
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are supported by
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl v , Cm --version
Display the current version of
.Nm .
.It Fl d , Cm --debug
Show debug information.
.It Fl l , Cm --list
List all the available command names, and exit without performing any
other action.
The
.Fl v
option takes precedence over
.Fl l
but
.Fl l
will override any other command line arguments.
.It Fl o Ao option=value Ac , Cm --option Ao option=value Ac
Set configuration option for
.Nm
from the command line.
Options that are set from the environment are redefined.
It is permitted to specify this option multiple times.
.It Cm --status-check
Activation status check mode.
.Nm
will run sanity tests.
It first checks for the existence
of the SQLite database as specified by the configuration.
It then attempts to run a simple read-only query to determine the
number of packages installed.
If the query is successful, and at least one package is installed,
.Nm
will exit normally after printing out the number of installed
packages, otherwise an error message will be printed.
The exit status should be a reliable indication of whether a system
is configured to use
.Nm
as its package management system or not.
.Pp
Example usage:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
  if rvn --status-check >/dev/null 2>&1; then
    # rvn functional
  else
    # rvn missing or non-functional
  fi
.Ed
.It Fl c Ao chroot path Ac , Cm --chroot Ao chroot path Ac
.Nm
will chroot in the
.Ao chroot path Ac
environment.
.It Fl r Ao root directory Ac , Cm --rootdir Ao root directory Ac
.Nm
will install all packages within the specified
.Ao root directory Ac .
.It Fl C Ao configuration file Ac , Cm --config Ao configuration file Ac
.Nm
will use the specified file as a configuration file.
.It Fl R Ao repo conf dir Ac , Cm --repo-conf-dir Ao repo conf dir Ac
.Nm
will search the directory for per-repository configuration files.
This overrides any value of
.Ev REPOS_DIR
specified in the main configuration file.
.It Fl 4
.Nm
will be restricted to IPv4 for fetching repository and packages.
.It Fl 6
.Nm
will be restricted to IPv6 for fetching repository and packages.
.El
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh COMMANDS
The following commands (or their unambiguous abbreviations) are supported by
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width xxxxxxxxxxxx
.It Ic help Ar command
Display usage information of the specified command.
.\".It Ic add
.\"Install a package from either a local source or a remote one.
.\".Pp
.\"When installing from remote source you need to specify the
.\"protocol to use when fetching the package.
.\".Pp
.\"Currently supported protocols are FTP, HTTP and HTTPS.
.\".It Ic annotate
.\"Add, modify or delete tag-value style annotations on packages.
.\".It Ic alias
.\"List the command line aliases.
.\".It Ic autoremove
.\"Delete packages which were automatically installed as dependencies and are not required any more.
.\".It Ic check
.\"Sanity checks installed packages.
.\".It Ic clean
.\"Clean the local cache of fetched remote packages.
.It Ic create
Create a compressed package archive (rvn-format).
.\".It Ic delete
.\"Delete a package from the database and the system.
.\".It Ic fetch
.\"Fetch packages from a remote repository.
.It Ic info
Display information about installed packages or package files.
.It Ic install
Install a package from a local or remote package repository.
.\".It Ic query
.\"Query information about installed packages.
.\".It Ic repo
.\"Create a local package repository for remote usage.
.\".It Ic rquery
.\"Query information for remote repositories.
.\".It Ic search
.\"Search for the given pattern in the remote package
.\"repositories.
.\".It Ic set
.\"Modify information in the installed database.
.\".It Ic shell
.\"Open a SQLite shell to the local or remote database.
.\"Extreme care should be taken when using this command.
.\".It Ic shlib
.\"Displays which packages link to a specific shared library.
.\".It Ic stats
.\"Display package database statistics.
.\".It Ic update
.\"Update the available remote repositories as listed in
.\".Xr rvn.conf 5 .
.\".It Ic upgrade
.\"Upgrade a package to a newer version.
.\".It Ic version
.\"Summarize installed versions of packages.
.\".It Ic which
.\"Query the database for package(s) that installed a specific
.\"file.
.El
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
All configuration options from
.Xr rvn.conf 5
can be passed as environment variables.
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh FILES
See
.Xr rvn.conf 5 .
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh EXAMPLES
.\"Search for a package:
.\".Dl $ rvn search joe
.\".Pp
.\"Install a package:
.\".Dl Installing must specify a unique origin or version otherwise it will try installing all matches.
.\".Pp
.\".Dl % rvn install joe-single-standard
.\".Pp
.\"List installed packages:
.Dl $ rvn info
.\"Upgrade from remote repository:
.\".Dl % rvn upgrade
.\".Pp
.\"List non-automatic packages:
.\".Dl $ rvn query -e '%a = 0' %o
.\".Pp
.\"List automatic packages:
.\".Dl $ rvn query -e '%a = 1' %o
.\".Pp
.\"Delete an installed package:
.\".Dl % rvn delete "joe*"
.\".Pp
.\"Remove unneeded dependencies:
.\".Dl % rvn autoremove
.\".Pp
.\"Change a package from automatic to non-automatic, which will prevent
.\".Ic autoremove
.\"from removing it:
.\".Dl % rvn set -A 0 joe-single-standard
.\".Pp
.\"Change a package from non-automatic to automatic, which will make
.\".Ic autoremove
.\"allow it be removed once nothing depends on it:
.\".Dl % rvn set -A 1 joe-single-standard
.\".Pp
.\"Determine which package installed a file:
.\".Dl $ rvn which /raven/bin/joe
.\".Pp
.\"Check installed packages for checksum mismatches:
.\".Dl # rvn check -s -a
.\".Pp
.\"Check for missing dependencies:
.\".Dl # rvn check -d -a
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rvn-keywords 5 ,
.Xr rvn-lua-scripts 5 ,
.Xr rvn-scripts 5 ,
.Xr rvn-alias 8 ,
.Xr rvn-config 8 ,
.Xr rvn-create 8 ,
.Xr rvn-genrepo 8 ,
.Xr rvn-info 8 ,
.Xr rvn-install 8 ,
.Xr rvn-shell 8 ,
.Xr rvn-shlib 8 ,
.Xr rvn-version 8 ,
.Xr rvn-which 8
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh HISTORY
The pkg command first appeared in
.Fx 9.1 .
The
.Nm
program was implemented in Ada from scratch to closely mimic pkg while
adapting it for Ravenports features such as variants and subpackages.
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh AUTHORS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.An John Marino Aq draco@marino.st
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh BUGS
See the issue tracker at
.Em https://github.com/Ravenports/rvn/issues
