.Dd May 20, 2024
.Dt RVN.CONF 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm "rvn.conf"
.Nd system-wide configuration file for
.Xr rvn 8
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is the system-wide configuration file used by the
.Xr rvn 8
tool.
.Pp
The default location of this file is
.Pa /raven/etc/rvn.conf .
.Pp
Lines in the file beginning with a "#" are comments
and are ignored.
.Pp
The file is in UCL format.
For more information on the syntax of UCL,
please visit the official UCL website - http://github.com/vstakhov/libucl.
.Pp
The following types of options are recognized -
boolean, string and list options.
.Pp
A boolean option is marked as enabled if one of the following values is
specified in the configuration file -
.Dv YES, TRUE
and
.Dv ON .
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options can be defined in
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width ".Cm ABI: string"
.It Cm ABI: string
The ABI of the package you want to install.
A system specific default is determined, E.g.,
.Ql 'dragonfly:x86_64:6.4 .
.It Cm ALIAS: key/value list
Define local aliases for various
.Xr rvn 8
standard command lines.
Whenever the
.Em key
text occurs as a separate
.Sq action
word in a command line of the form
.Nm rvn Em key ... ,
substitute the
.Em value
text verbatim.
The replacement can consist of any sequence of text, which should form
a syntactically correct
.Xr rvn 8
command line when substituted in and followed by any remaining tokens from
the original command line.
Default: not set.
.It Cm AUTOCLEAN: boolean
Automatically cleanout the content of
.Em RVN_CACHEDIR
after each non dry-run call to
.Xr rvn-install 8
or
.Xr rvn-upgrade 8 .
.It Cm ASSUME_ALWAYS_YES: boolean
When this option is enabled
.Xr rvn 8
will automatically assume "yes" to all questions
which require user confirmation before doing anything, as if it
the
.Fl y
flag was specified.
Default: NO.
.It Cm CASE_SENSITIVE_MATCH: boolean
Match package names or regular expressions given on the command line
against values in the database in a case sensitive way.
Default: NO.
.It Cm DEBUG_LEVEL: integer
Incremental values from 1 to 3 produce successively more verbose
debugging output.
A setting of 0 disables debugging output.
Overridden by the
.Fl d
command line option.
Default: 0.
.It Cm DEBUG_SCRIPTS: boolean
Activate debug mode for scripts (aka set -x)
Default: NO.
.It Cm DEVELOPER_MODE: boolean
Makes certain errors immediately fatal.
Adds various warnings and
suggestions to the output of
.Xr rvn 8
as an aid to port maintainers, including indicating when the port
might be marked as architecture independent.
Default: NO.
.It Cm EVENT_PIPE: string
Send all event messages to the specified FIFO or Unix socket.
Events messages should be formatted as JSON.
Default: not set.
.It Cm FETCH_RETRY: integer
Number of times to retry a failed fetch of a file.
Default: 3.
.It Cm FETCH_TIMEOUT: integer
Maximum number of seconds to wait for any one file to download from the
network, either by SSH or any of the protocols supported by
.Xr fetch 3
functions.
Default: 30.
.It Cm HANDLE_RC_SCRIPTS: boolean
When enabled, this option will automatically perform start/stop of
services during package installation and deinstallation.
Services are only started on installation if they are enabled in
.Pa /etc/rc.conf .
Default: NO.
.It Cm HTTP_USER_AGENT: string
Define User-agent to be sent to HTTP server when getting repository
data.
.It Cm IP_VERSION: integer
Restrict network access to specified IP version.
4 will only allow IPv4 and 6 will only allow IPv6.
Any other value will use the system default.
Repositories or command line options can override this setting.
Default: 0.
.It Cm LOCK_RETRIES: integer
Number of attempts to obtain a lock before giving up and exiting.
Default: 5.
.It Cm LOCK_WAIT: integer
Wait time in seconds to regain a lock if it is not available.
Default: 1.
.It Cm PERMISSIVE: boolean
Ignore conflicts while registering a package.
Note that the conflicting files will not be recorded as owned by the new
package.
Default: NO.
.It Cm RVN_CACHEDIR: string
Specifies the cache directory for packages.
Default:
.Pa /var/cache/rvn .
.It Cm CREATE_VERBOSE: boolean
When set to a
.Sy true
value, make
.Xr rvn-create 8
use verbose mode as standard.
Default:
.Sy NO .
.It Cm RVN_DBDIR: string
Specifies the directory to use for storing the package
database files.
Default:
.Pa /var/db/rvn .
.It Cm RVN_ENVIRON: Key/Value list
This tells
.Xr rvn 8
to set key/values to be passed in the environment.
This allow setting variables to configure the http(s) fetcher.
Which accepts environment variables compatible with
.Xr fetch 3 ,
e.g.,
.Ev HTTP_PROXY .
Default: not set.
.It Cm SSH_ARGS: string
Extra arguments to pass to
.Xr ssh 1 .
Default: not set.
.It Cm PLIST_KEYWORDS_DIR: string
Directory containing definitions of plist keywords.
.It Cm READ_LOCK: boolean
Use read locking for query database.
Default: NO.
.It Cm REPOS_DIR: array
List of directories to search for repository configuration files.
Default: /etc/rvn ,
.Pa /raven/etc/rvn/repos/ .
.It Cm REPO_AUTOUPDATE: boolean
When true, automatically check for and download updates to
.Pa /var/db/rvn/remote.sqlite
when running one of:
.Nm rvn fetch ,
.Nm rvn install ,
.Nm rvn rquery ,
.Nm rvn search ,
.Nm rvn upgrade ,
or
.Nm rvn version -R .
Default: YES.
.It Cm RUN_SCRIPTS: boolean
Run pre-/post-installation action scripts.
Default: YES.
.It Cm SQLITE_PROFILE: boolean
Profile SQLite queries.
Default: NO.
.It Cm SSH_RESTRICT_DIR: string
Directory which the ssh subsystem will be restricted to.
Default: not set.
.It Cm SYSLOG: boolean
Log all of the installation/deinstallation/upgrade operations via
.Xr syslog 3 .
Default: YES.
.It Cm VERSION_SOURCE: string
Default database for comparing version numbers in
.Xr rvn-version 8 .
Valid values are
.Sy S
for snapshot index,
.Sy I
for release index,
.Sy R
for remote catalog.
Default: release index
.It Cm VALID_URL_SCHEME
List of url scheme that rvn can accept while parsing the repository
confguration file. .
.It Cm WARN_SIZE_LIMIT: integer
When download and total change is less than than this option, don't ask
the user to confirm the desired action.
Default:
.Sy 1048576
.Pq 1MB .
.El
.Sh REPOSITORY CONFIGURATION
To use a repository you will need at least one repository
configuration file.
.Pp
Repository configuration files are searched for in order of the
directories listed in the
.Cm REPOS_DIR
array,
which defaults to
.Pa /raven/etc/rvn/repos/ .
.Pp
Filenames are arbitrary, but they must end with the
.Sq .conf
extension.
For example
.Pa /raven/etc/rvn/repos/myrepo.conf .
.Pp
A repository file is in UCL format and has the following form:
.Bl -tag -width "XXXX"
.It Cm myrepo:
.Bl -tag -width "XXXXXXXX"
.It Cm ENABLED: boolean
The repository will be used only if this option is enabled.
(default: true)
.It Cm MASTER: boolean
There can only be one enabled master repository which provides the
reference digest for the catalog.
Only mirrors that agree on this checksum and have a catalog that matches
the checksum will be allowed to provide the catalog and packages.
Any later enabled masters will be ignored.
(default: true)
.It Cm URL: string
URL for this repository.
.It Cm SCP_PRIVATE_KEY: string
Path to PEM-encoded private key to be used with SCP URLs.
.It Cm SCP_PUBLIC_KEY: string
Path to the public key that was generated with the SCP private key.
.It Cm MIRROR_TYPE: string
MIRROR_TYPE for this repository.
Must be
.Dv SRV
or
.Dv NONE .
(default: NONE)
.It Cm SIGNATURE_TYPE: string
Specifies what type of signature this repository uses.
Must be
.Dv NONE ,
.Dv PUBKEY or
.Dv FINGERPRINTS .
(default: NONE)
.It Cm PUBKEY: string
Set to the path of the public key file for this repository.
(default: NONE)
.It Cm FINGERPRINTS: string
Set to the path of the directory containing the trusted and revoked
subdirectories for this repository.
.It Cm IP_VERSION: integer
Restrict network access to specified IP version.
4 will only allow IPv4 and 6 will only allow IPv6.
Any other value will use the system default.
This option overrides the global setting with the same name and can be
overwritten by a command line option.
(default: 0)
.It Cm PRIORITY: integer
Set the priority of the repository.
This only applies to repositories that are not serving in a master role,
in other words, an alternate/backup mirror.
The mirror with the highest numeric priority are utilized first.
Upon a tie, the repo whose name is first in the alphabet will have
a higher priority.
(default: 0)
.It Cm ENV: object
A list of key value entries that will be passed as environment variable
for the bundled curl library per repository.
.El
.El
.Pp
For a
.Cm MIRROR_TYPE
of
.Dv NONE ,
any of the following URL schemes:
.Dv http:// ,
.Dv https:// ,
.Dv file:// ,
.Dv scp:// .
.Pp
When
.Sy SIGNATURE_TYPE
is
.Dv NONE ,
then no signature checking will be done on the repository.
When
.Sy SIGNATURE_TYPE
is
.Dv PUBKEY ,
then the
.Sy PUBKEY
option will be used for signature verification.
This option is for use with the built-in signing support.
When
.Sy SIGNATURE_TYPE
is
.Dv FINGERPRINTS ,
then the
.Sy FINGERPRINTS
option will be used for signature verification.
This option is for use with an external signing command.
See
.Xr rvn-genrepo 8
for more discussion on signature types.
.Pp
If
.Sy FINGERPRINTS
is set to
.Pa /raven/etc/rvn/fingerprints/myrepo ,
then the directories
.Pa /raven/etc/rvn/fingerprints/myrepo/trusted
and
.Pa /raven/etc/rvn/fingerprints/myrepo/revoked
should exist with known good and bad fingerprints, respectively.
Files in those directories should be in the format:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
function: "blake3"
fingerprint: "<blake3-representation-of-public-key>"
.Ed
.Pp
The repository tag
.Fa myrepo
is an arbitrary string.
Reusing the repository tag will cause those items defined in
configuration files later on the
.Sy REPOS_DIR
search path to overwrite the equivalent settings for the same tag
earlier on the search path.
.Pp
Repositories are processed in the order they are found on the
.Sy REPOS_DIR
search path, with individual repository configuration files in the
same directory processed in alphabetical order.
The mirror repositories will only be used if the catalog checksum matches
the master repository's reported checksum.
.Pp
It is possible to specify more than one repository per file.
.Sh VARIABLES
The following variables will be expanded during the parsing of
.Nm
(Not yet implemented)
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Va ABI
.It Va OSNAME
Expands to the full version of the name of the operating system.
.It Va RELEASE
Expands to the full version of the operating system.
.It Va ARCH
Expands the architecture of the system.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
An environment variable with the same name as the option in the
configuration file always overrides the value of an option set in the
file.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Repository configuration file:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
Ravenports: {
    enabled: true,
    master: true,
    url: "http://www.ravenports.com/repository/${ABI}",
    signature_type: "fingerprints",
    fingerprints: "/usr/share/rvn/keys",
}

scptest: {
    enabled: true
    ip_version: 4
    master: false
    mirror_type: 'NONE'
    priority: 0
    scp_private_key: '/root/.ssh/loki-marino-rsa'
    scp_public_key: '/root/.ssh/loki-marino-rsa.pub'
    signature_type: 'NONE'
    url: 'scp://marino@loki.dragonflybsd.org/~/testbed/unsigned'
}

.Ed
.Pp
Example for rvn.conf:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
rvn_dbdir: "/var/db/rvn"
rvn_cachedir: "/var/cache/rvn"
handle_rc_scripts: false
assume_always_yes: false
repos_dir: [
     "/raven/etc/rvn/repos",
]
syslog: true
developer_mode: false
rvn_environ: {
    http_proxy: "http://myproxy:3128",
}
alias: {
    origin: "info -qo",
    nonauto: "query -e '%a == 0' '%n-%v'"
}
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rvn-keywords 5 ,
.Xr rvn-lua-scripts 5 ,
.Xr rvn-repository 5 ,
.Xr rvn-scripts 5 ,
.Xr rvn-triggers 5 ,
.Xr rvn 8 ,
.Xr rvn-alias 8 ,
.Xr rvn-annotate 8 ,
.Xr rvn-audit 8 ,
.Xr rvn-autoremove 8 ,
.Xr rvn-catalog 8 ,
.Xr rvn-check 8 ,
.Xr rvn-clean 8 ,
.Xr rvn-config 8 ,
.Xr rvn-create 8 ,
.Xr rvn-fetch 8 ,
.Xr rvn-genrepo 8 ,
.Xr rvn-info 8 ,
.Xr rvn-install 8 ,
.Xr rvn-query 8 ,
.Xr rvn-remove 8 ,
.Xr rvn-rquery 8 ,
.Xr rvn-search 8 ,
.Xr rvn-shell 8 ,
.Xr rvn-shlib 8 ,
.Xr rvn-stats 8 ,
.Xr rvn-upgrade 8 ,
.Xr rvn-version 8 ,
.Xr rvn-which 8
